misc: replace marionette-client with geckodriver as b2g marionette client is no longer supported (#30250)
cypress-io/cypress: packages/server/lib/browsers/geckodriver/README.md

# GeckoDriver

## Purpose

> Cypress uses [GeckoDriver](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/geckodriver/index.html) to drive [classic WebDriver](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver2/) methods, as well as interface with Firefox's [Marionette Protocol](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/marionette/Intro.html). This is necessary to automate the Firefox browser in such cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cypress uses [GeckoDriver](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/geckodriver/index.html) to drive [classic WebDriver](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver2/) methods, as well as interface with Firefox's [Marionette Protocol](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/marionette/Intro.html). This is necessary to automate the Firefox browser in the follow cases:
```

Author: addressed in fb54eaaa9a

> Cypress uses [GeckoDriver](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/geckodriver/index.html) to drive [classic WebDriver](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver2/) methods, as well as interface with Firefox's [Marionette Protocol](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/marionette/Intro.html). This is necessary to automate the Firefox browser in the following cases:

Reviewer 2: The living document you can actually find at https://w3c.github.io/webdriver. This is always up-to-date. The reference you used above might not always reflect the current state (it still misses the notion of navigables) and as you can see is already outdated - last update in July this year.

Author: good to know! I will update the README (and other) references from `https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver2/` to `https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/`

Author: updated in fdcde2dd7c

It is worth noting that Cypress patches the [`geckodriver`](https://github.com/webdriverio-community/node-geckodriver#readme) package for a few reasons:
* To coincide with our debug logs in order to not print extraneous messages to the console that could disrupt end user experience as well as impact our system tests.
* Patch top-level awaits to correctly build the app.
* Pass process spawning arguments to the geckodriver process (which is a child process of the main process) in order to set `MOZ_` prefixed environment variables in the browser. These cannot be set through the [env capability](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/WebDriver/Capabilities/firefoxOptions#env_object) and must be done through `geckodriver` as `geckodriver` spawns the `firefox` process. Please see [this comment](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1604723#c20) for more details.

> Currently, since the use of WebDriver Classic is so miniscule, the methods are implemented in an HTTP fashion inside the [WebDriver Classic Class](../webdriver-classic/index.ts). It's important to note that, unlike Chrome, Firefox is launched via the WebDriver [newSession command](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver2/#new-session) As BiDi develop occurs and to reduce maintenance cost, using an already implemented client like [`webdriver`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webdriver) will be explored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, since the use of WebDriver Classic is so miniscule, the methods are implemented using direct fetch calls inside the [WebDriver Classic Class](../webdriver-classic/index.ts). It's important to note that, unlike Chrome, Firefox is launched via the WebDriver [newSession command](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver2/#new-session) As BiDi development occurs and to reduce maintenance cost, using an already implemented client like [`webdriver`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webdriver) will be explored.
```

Author: addressed in fb54eaaa9a

Since we patch the [`geckodriver`](https://github.com/webdriverio-community/node-geckodriver#readme) package, we [`nohoist`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/blog/2018/02/15/nohoist/) the dependency. This mostly works with sub-dependencies, but one of the dependencies, `pump@^3.0.0` (from `geckodriver` -> `tar-fs` -> `pump`) is missing from the binary. To workaround this, we install `pump` in `@packages/server` and `nohoist` the dependency so it is available in the binary as a production dependency.

## Debugging

To help debug `geckodriver` and `firefox`, the `DEBUG=cypress-verbose:server:browsers:geckodriver` can be used when launching `cypress`. This will

>  * Enable full `stdout` and `stderr` for `geckodriver` (including startup time) and the `firefox` process. The logs will **NOT** be truncated so they may get quite long.

Reviewer 2: Please note that geckodriver also accepts a `-vv` argument which will enable [trace level logs](https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/testing/geckodriver/TraceLogs.html) for Firefox as well. This is pretty helpful in case you see some broken behavior or misbehavior by our implementation which needs to be investigated.

Author: does this have the same effect as setting `--log=trace`?

Reviewer 2: Yes, one provides a string while for easier use we added the `-v[v]` argument.
